JWT (JSON web token) has become more and more popular in web development. 

It is an open standard which allows transmitting data between parties as a JSON object in a secure and compact way. 

The data transmitting using JWT between parties are digitally signed so that it can be easily verified and trusted.

 It can be signed using public / private key (ECDSA or RAS) or made secret with HMAC algorithm. It is very popular in web development.
 
Structure of JWT
 
It consists of three parts: Header, Payload, and Signature; all are separated by the dots(.). So JWT looks like - "hhhhhhhhhh.ppppppppp.ssssssss".
 
Header
 
It consists of two parts: the hashing algorithm being used such as HMAC SHA256 or RAS, and the type of token, that is, JWT.

Payload
 
The second part of the JWT is a payload that contains the claims. Claims are the statements about the entity, such as a user. And also, the payload contains the additional metadata. There are three types of Claims: Registered, Public, and Private.

Signature
 
To create the Signature part, we have to use encoded header and payload, a secret that used by the algorithm specified in the header and sign that. The signature is used to verify that the message wasn't changed in transition.


What is Swagger?
 
Swagger is an open source api documentation that helps us to understand API service methods.
 
When we consume a web API, then understanding its various methods and verbs can be challenging for a developer.  This solves the problem of generating documentation.  It's also known as OpenAPI.
 
There are three core components of it,
Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.Swagger: A Swagger object model expose SwaggerDocument objects in JSON.
Swashbuckle.SwaggerGen : It provides the functionality to generate JSON Swagger.
Swashbuckle.SwaggerUI : The Swagger UI tool uses the above documents for a rich customization for describing the Web API functionality.
Package installation
 
There are 2 ways that you can install packages.
Package Manager Console
Go to tools > Nuget Packege Manager > Package Manager Console
 
Navigate to the directory in which your file exists.
 
Execute the following command:
 
Install-Package Swashbuckle.AspNetCore -Version 5.5.0