
ASP.NET 

features 

It is the client-server architecture meant for designing the web applications.

Typically in Asp.net application the browser(client) sends the requests to the web server and the server processes the requests and returns the HTML output back to the client.

web servers are IIS, development server provided by visual studio.

VS is the IDE for designing the web applications.
.NET supported C# language will be used for developing web applications.

SERVER Controls 
HTML Controls
validation controls
Databound controls
Navigation controls
login controls
web parts 
user controls
custom controls

Server controls have runat=server attribute which will make them run on server.
for eg : <asp:button id ="b1" text="click here" runat=server/>
these are for server-side web development.

HTML Controls will start with <input type="text" runat="server"/>
These are used for client-side web development.


There are 2 types of coding models in ASP.NET 

1.Code-behind  designing and coding areas are seperate.
2.Inline code  designing and coding in single page.

ASP.NET CONFIGURATION

The behavior of an ASP.NET application is affected by different settings in the configuration files:

machine.config

web.config


The machine.config file contains default and the machine-specific value for all supported settings. The machine settings are controlled by the system administrator and applications are generally not given access to this file.

An application however, can override the default values by creating web.config files in its roots folder. The web.config file is a subset of the machine.config file.

If the application contains child directories, it can define a web.config file for each folder. Scope of each configuration file is determined in a hierarchical top-down manner.

Any web.config file can locally extend, restrict, or override any settings defined on the upper level.

Visual Studio generates a default web.config file for each project. An application can execute without a web.config file, however, you cannot debug an application without a web.config file.

